Next, let's do a brief review of
the frequentist approach to inference, which will be useful for
contrasting with the Bayesian approach. Under the frequentist paradigm,
you view the data as a random sample from some larger,
potentially hypothetical population. We can then make
probability statements i.e, long-run frequency statements
based on this larger population. As an example let's suppose
we flip a coin a 100 times. And we get 44 heads and 56 tails. We can view these 100 flips as
a random sample from a much larger infinite hypothetical population
of flips from this coin. In this case we can say
that each flip x sub i follows a Bournelli distribution
with some probability p. In this case (p) may be unknown, but we're assuming it's fixed because
we have a particular physical coin. We can ask what's our best estimate
of the probability of getting a head. Or estimate of (p). We can also ask how confident
are we in that estimate. We can start down the mathematical
approach by applying the Central Limit Theorem. Central Limit Theorem says
that the sum of the 100 flips sum of the x of i's will follow
approximately a normal distribution. Which mean 100p and variance 100p(1-p). Here I'm writing the squiggle
with the dot above and below to mean approximately
falls a distribution. By Central Limit Theorem we
have this distribution and so by properties of
normal 95% of the time. We'll get a result within 1.96
standard deviations of the mean. Thus we can say 95% of the time,
we expect to observe between 100p- 1.96 times the square
root of 100p1-p. And 100p+1.96 times the square
root if 100p times (1-p). In this case, we've observed 44 hats. So that we can estimate
the probability of getting ahead, and write that p hat our estimate of p,
as 44/100. We can then go back and plug this
value into our theoretical quantity. This is what referred to as
a Confidence Interval in this case. Confidence Interval,
you may abbreviate as CI. The Confidence Interval is I'm
going to be 44 plus or minus 1.96 times the square root of 44 times 0.56. Or in this case this is 44 plus or
minus 9.7. Or the interval that
goes from 34.3 to 53.7. So we can say that we're 95% confident That p is in the interval .343 to .537. We're 95% confident that the true
probability of getting a head is in this interval. So if we want to ask a question
do we think this is a fair coin. That it is reasonable that this is a fair
coin because one half is in this interval. But we can also step back and
say what does this interval really mean. What does it mean when I
say we're 95% confident? Under the frequentist paradigm,
what this means is we have to think back to our infinite hypothetical
sequence of events. So if we were to repeat this trial
an infinite number of times, or an arbitrary large number of times. Each time we create a confidence interval
in this way based on the data we observe. Than on average 95% of the intervals we
make will contain the true value of p. This makes senses along where
in frequency explanation. On the other hand we might want to know
something about this particular interval. Does this interval contain the true p. What's the probability that this
interval contains a true p? Well, we don't know for
this particular interval. But under the frequentist paradigm, we're assuming that there is
a fixed right answer for p. Either p is in that interval or
it's not in that interval. And so technically,
from a frequentist perspective, the probability that p is in
this interval is either 0 or 1. This is not a particularly
satisfying explanation. In the other hand when we get to
the Bayesian approach we will be able to compute an interval and actually say there
is probably a p is in this interval is 95% based on a random interpretation
of an unknown parameter